>> Kyle: Let's talk through
the solution for exercise 8.
I'm gonna start first by implementing
the filterobj and reduceobj functions.
So as my starting point
I'm just gonna copy and
paste that implementation and
then edit from there.
So, I am not gonna be
calling a mapperFn here.
I'm just gonna be calling that but
I am going to have a conditional.
So I am going to say
if the predicateFn and
what I need to pass into it is o of key.
So I don't set it on the new object if
it doesn't pass the predicate check.
It's just not added to the new object.
And then for,
>> Kyle: The reduced object function,
we need to have a kind of that
running total, if you will.
And I'm gonna do that
by just making a result
variable that starts
out = to initialValue.
And again,
I'm not calling a mapper function, but
I am gonna be calling a,
>> Kyle: So I'm gonna say result =,
and I'm gonna be calling
the reducer function, and
I need to pass along the current running
result, as well as the new value here.
And now we realize wait a minute,
I'm not actually making a new object.
Reduce doesn't make a new object.
So let's get rid of the new object and
the new object.
And instead, what do we want to return?
>> Speaker 2: Result.
>> Kyle: Result.
>> Kyle: Okay, any questions about that
part, implementing either of those two?
>> Kyle: It's pretty straight forward to
implement those ideas against the data
structure like the object.
The more sophisticated you get,
the more complex it might get.
So for example, when I implemented
filter against a binary tree.
When you start removing nodes from a tree,
you actually need to rebalance the tree.
And so there was 30 or 40 lines worth of
code that was just rebalancing the tree,
had nothing to do with
the filter algorithm.
But that data structure in particular,
had a lot of extra work to implement, so.
But the filter reduce in that
parts are pretty straight forward.
Okay, let's come up here, and
talk about somethings that we could
do differently with this code.
First off, I have three different
statements that represent a flow of data.
My flow of data is
starting out with my nums.
That becomes filtered nums which then goes
in here and becomes filtered num products.
Which then goes in here and
becomes this number.
So there's a flow of data
through these operations
from an object to final and result number.
What does a flow of data
generally look like to you?
>> Kyle: Through a set of functions.
Should look like a compose or
actually I'm gonna represent this
with pipe instead of with compose.
So just to sketch out my ideas here
in terms of how I am gonna implement.
I am go do a pipe here, and
that's gonna create me a function
that I need to pass something in.
What am I passing in to my piped function?
>> Kyle: I'm passing in the nums, right?
That's the input value,
it's gonna come into the first function.
So I'm basically gonna have a function 1,
a function 2, and a function 3 here.
Nums is going to come into function 1 and
get changed into something.
That's going to become the input to
function 2, which is then going to output
to function3, which is then going
to output my final number value.
So let's start at the bottom,
let's start with the reduce object,
because I've been past an object and
I want to reduce it to a number.
This reduce object takes three inputs.
It takes a reducer, an initial value, and
it takes a input value.
I wanna provide two of
those three right now.
The third one is going to come
from the output of functiont 2.
So what do you think I could do to
provide three of those right now?
I mean, two of the three right now.
Could do a partial application.
I'm gonna do it with currying,
since we provided you the curry utility.
So to replace function three in my
little piping call, I'm gonna curry
and this is the function that I'm
currying, which is reduce object.
That's my utility.
The first input that I need
to provide is this reducer.
>> Kyle: The next input that I need
to provide is this initial value.
So it's waiting on the last input,
which is gonna take that place.
I don't need to worry
about passing that one in.
That's what the pipe is gonna do for me.
Have we follow that recently?
>> Kyle: Now, let's look at this
function that I just copied in.
What we notice about the shape and
the behavior of that function?
>> Kyle: Does it look like anything else
that we already have provided to us?
It looks like the sum utility doesn't it?
So why don't we just replace
that thing with the sum utility?
>> Kyle: And that has gotten rid
of one of those three operations.
So let's keep working our way backward.
We need to call the map
object with two inputs.
Well, that sounds like
another curry to me.
So I'm gonna curry
the map object function.
And I need to provide it this utility.
>> Kyle: Now let's look at that
utility for just a moment.
What does that look like to you?
>> Speaker 3: List product.
>> Kyle: It looks like list product,
right?
That's a point that we don't need
,so why don't we just use list
product as the napper function.
>> Kyle: Everybody following
how I'm doing this?
One last one to do.
You'll notice that I have two
function calls happening here.
What are those function calls look like?
>> Speaker 2: Could you scroll down?
>> Kyle: I'm just asking what
is line 15 look like to you?
I have a listsum that's called and
it's output becomes the input to isOdd.
What does that look like to you?
>> Speaker 2: It looks like a compose.
>> Kyle: It looks like a compose, right?
That's the instinct you wanna
start looking for what is this?
Well, I am gonna wanna compose isOdd
>> Kyle: And listSum,
>> Kyle: You see that?
I'm trying to compose listSum with
isOdd which now produces a function
which is expecting a list.
It will pass it into listSum,
and then that result will go into isOdd,
then that will come out.
Now that is my filterer, right?
So I need to,
>> Kyle: Curry my filter object.
And then provide that composed filter,
I mean that composed predicate.
>> Kyle: [COUGH] We double check to make
sure this does what it's supposed to do
and I didn't mess something up,
which we've all ready seen I'm good at.
And there we get the output,
>> Kyle: So we were able to take that mess
that I started you out with and using
what we already know about currying and
composition and piping,
to produce a point free representation.
Can everybody follow that?
>> Kyle: There's one kind of final thing
I was hoping maybe some of you would
recognize.
Which is not just that we moved
it down to a point for thing but
to recognize that we still fundamentally
have three different repeated operation.
And anytime you see that set of operations
happening, one of those bells that
should go off in your head is that
fundamentally a list operation?
Is basically pipe, a list operation.
>> Kyle: What if pipe was a reducer?
What if we gave it a list
of these functions and
we reduced that list with pipe.
So I'm gonna, I'll just leave this there
in the comments so that we can see it.
But I'm gonna copy it,
>> Kyle: I'm gonna copy it and edit it.
So I'm gonna take this and
put that into an array.
I'm just going to have those three values.
Those three partial functions there
are curried functions in an array.
And then I'm gonna say let's
think about what a pipe does.
Pipe could take two functions and
make them into one right?
Because that's what,
fundamentally, composition is.
So if I did a reduce with pipe,
it would take the first
two in the list to these two,
and compose them into a function.
And then it would take that one, and
compose it with the third
one into a single function.
So the end result of that function call
would be something that
I could pass nuns to.
And it should pass nums into that piped
function which then passes it along to
each of these curry functions,
all one call.
There's one last little detail, and
this is more a vagary of how
JavaScript's mechanisms work.
But something that you wanna pay attention
to if you're gonna use these list
operations built into JavaScript arrays.
Reduce, you recall earlier when I talked
about how it passes in multiple arguments.
It'll pass in also an index and
also the array.
It does that for map, filter, and reduce.
It passes those extra arguments
that typical functional programming
libraries don't.
That's gonna create a problem for pipe.
Because pipe is expecting
everything to be functions.
And we're gonna be passing stuff
to it that isn't functions.
We really only wanna pass
two things into it, right?
Cuz we wanna it to reduce
two functions at a time.
So how about if we call binary
on the pipe function to
restrict its input to only
the first two arguments?
>> Kyle: Let's test to make
sure I didn't mess that up.
>> Kyle: There we go.
>> Kyle: So not only was I
able to adapt list operations
to objects to other data structures.
Then we used what we've learned in this
course about currying and piping, and
composing, to build a point-free
representation for that flow of data.
And then we recognized that each
of the steps in that flow of
data can actually be modeled itself
as a composition, as a piping.
It's a list operation,
where we reduce with the pipe utility.
>> Kyle: If I hadn't taught you
anything in this course, and
you just saw that piece of code.
The honest truth is probably most
of us would not know exactly what
that was doing.
We would probably struggle
to understand it.
At this point, I hope you don't feel
completely lost looking at that code.
I hope it at least has
some recognition to you.
But where we're at right now, I wanna
recall back to the very beginning of
this course, when I talked about
that curve of readability.
And we've quested the top now, and for
many of you you might be starting to
wonder I'm I headed towards this trough
of, my God what I'm I looking at.
Cuz that's certainly where I've been when
I've been trying to re-organise with point
free style and use function
utilities I cross some threshold,
after which things really start to
kinda go down hill towards that trough.
And all I can say to you, is that
the first time I did stuff like this,
I very much felt that way.
And I understand why you
would feel that way.
But I pushed through, I kept trying it.
I kept trying to practice with it.
I kept mixing and matching that,
every time I had a piece of code,
I tried these techniques
out on that piece of code.
And now, this piece of code as written.
It jumps out off the page at me as,
I know exactly what it's doing.
And it's not just because
I wrote the exercise.
It's because I've started to develop
some of those instincts where this has
become more readable.
So I'm starting to head back up
the hill of readability now.
So pushing through is important
because at some point
you're going to get disillusioned and
say like I've got no clue.
This is crazy,
you've got to just keep pushing through or
you'll never get to that point where
this really starts to benefit your code.
>> Speaker 4: In the real world,
where you're on an enterprise.
>> Kyle: Wait, am I not in the real world?
>> [LAUGH]
>> Kyle: Wait a minute,
I thought I was in the real world.
Okay, go ahead.
>> Speaker 4: Where you're on a enterprise
team with a bunch of programmers,
some of whom are gonna be junior,
some of whom are gonna be principle,
and everything in between.
Do you feel that right
in this kind of code
becomes a barrier to entry
to those junior developers?
And how do you go about introducing
functional into a team?
Where you have that range of ability.
>> Kyle: Yeah, so let me answer that
question in two different ways.
First, I'll be glib, I'll say tell them
to go read my book and watch this course.
>> Speaker 2: Go on, okay.
>> Kyle: Okay, but secondly,
I'll give you a more serious answer,
a more intentional answer.
There are lots of things that,
I mean we're in a learning context,
we've been doing a course where
we've been learning things.
And there are lots of things that you can
learn in any course that other members of
your team won't know.
If your premise is I can only use things
on my team if everybody already knows it.
Then you're gonna be stuck at the lowest
common denominator of that team
basically forever.
And I don't think that's a particularly
healthy way of thinking about the culture
of a team.
So I never want anyone
to feel like I'm saying,
boil it down to the lowest
common denominator.
I do think everybody on
a team should be learning and
should be striving to understand more.
I always tell people,
I don't care where you're at.
I only care what your direction is.
If you are headed upwards in terms of
your knowledge, you're all in a class and
you are committed to learning.
And you should be wanting to
promote that same culture
among the other members of your team.
And there are some tools that
you can use to promote that and
one of those tools is code review.
Code review is often or many times
seen as almost a negative thing,
like it's a gate or I can be criticised.
And I'm afraid to put my code in and
what if they tear it apart or whatever?
That's a culture problem that
you should really fight against.
You should say, no, we encourage it and
we're excited about code review,
because we get to learn something
every time we do a code review.
If you're a more senior person
to somebody else on the team and
they submit some code and
you do a code review.
And you see something where
they put a point in and
they could have reduced that point and
done point free style.
You should say, hey,
why don't we meet for five minutes and
I wanna talk to you about this
thing called point free style.
And I wanna just show you one example of
how it made this little piece of code
a little bit easier to read.
I'm not failing your counter view because
you didn't do it, but I'm using it as
an opportunity to pass along a small piece
of knowledge that you've helped learn.
If everybody takes that perspective,
then everybody gets to learn.
Everybody goes up the curve of learning.
And you don't have to be
scared of using new stuff and
nobody being able to understand it.
You probably do wanna be deliberate and
maybe not go rewrite your
whole code base overnight.
Do it a little bit at a time, and
you wanna be very intentional.
You wanna communicate to my team,
I'm gonna start to introduce this concept.
I learned about function composition and
now, I'm gonna introduce that.
And this is what it's gonna look like.
I wrote up this wiki page,
if you're interested in it.
Here's links to resources.
But if you see that in my code,
you know I'm doing that on purpose.
And communicate that with the team.
Have a brown bag lunch and
say, look, here's the stuff that we're
gonna try to do to improve the code style.
So I have to believe,
even though I'm not as much in
the real world as maybe you are.
I have to believe that developers
want to get better at their craft.
And I have to believe that there
are things that we can do to promote that
culture within our teams.
And you can go to your boss and say,
I want everybody to learn here.
I've been learning stuff and
I'm excited to improve our code with that.
Will you support me in that effort,
when I try to help raise the bubble?
If all boats rise with the tide,
will you support me in that?
And I have to believe that
a good boss will say,
absolutely, what can I do
to empower you with that?
So I definitely think that this kind
of stuff, done intentionally and
done slowly, not radically,
can improve a code base even in the most
real world of enterprise teams.
Everybody has to commit to
wanting to learn though.